h2. Introduction

This project provides examples of testing web applications that use javascript and AJAX.  The main tools are "Cucumber":cucumber to describe the required behaviour and "Celerity":celerity for simulating a web browser and executing the javascript.

Thanks to Ashley Moran for the introduction to using cucumber, celerity, and rspec at: "geekup-sheffield":http://aviewfromafar.net/2008/10/2/geekup-sheffield-vi-from-specification-to-success

The examples were developed with Celerity version 0.0.4.

Note: 
* "Webrat":webrat is another excellent tool that can be used with Cucumber.
* "jQuery":jquery is used in the javascript

Specifying the required behaviour consists of 2 parts:
# running the web application using your favourite staging environment
# driving the web application using jRuby, cucumber, celerity, rspec, and friends

Quickstart: read feature files and step definitions in features/

h2. Getting started

Celerity requires "jRuby":jruby.  Celerity, cucumber, rspec, and other gems used for specifying the required behaviour are installed in the jRuby environment.

Install
* "Ramaze":ramaze (2009.07) Easy web app framework
* "jRuby":jruby (1.3.1)
* "Celerity":celerity (0.0.6)
* "Cucumber":cucumber (0.3.94)
* "Rspec":rspec (1.2.8)
* "hpricot":hpricot (0.6.164) "jRuby instructions":http://kenai.com/projects/jruby/pages/Hpricot

Verify the web application is installed correctly by
# ruby start.rb
# browse to "localhost:7000":http://localhost:7000
You should see "Welcome" and a list of example web pages.

Verify jRuby, cucumber, rspec are installed correctly by
# jrake cucumber


You should see output similar to

<pre>
  Feature: Verify Cucumber, celerity, rspec are installed  # features/verify_cucumber_installation.feature
    In order verify web application behaviour
    the development team should be able to 
    run cucumber and celerity
    Scenario: visit the web application home page  # features/verify_cucumber_installation.feature:6
      When I visit the home page                   # features/step_definitions/first_steps.rb:19
      Then I should see "Welcome"                  # features/step_definitions/first_steps.rb:35


  2 steps passed
</pre>

h2. Tips

h3. Links to Celerity documentation

Documentation on Github

* "Ajax docs":http://wiki.github.com/jarib/celerity/ajax
* "FAQ":http://wiki.github.com/jarib/celerity/faq

Documentation on rubyforge

* "How to select elements":http://celerity.rubyforge.org/yard/Celerity/Container.html
* "FAQ":http://celerity.rubyforge.org/wiki/wiki.pl
* "Tutorial":http://celerity.rubyforge.org/wiki/wiki.pl?GettingStarted
* "API docs":http://celerity.rubyforge.org/yard/

h3. Wait for AJAX to finish

AJAX calls are executed asynchronously, which means we have to tell celerity to wait for the AJAX call to finish before trying to verify the results. 

One option is to create a browser instance that automatically waits for AJAX calls to finish.

<pre>
	@browser = Celerity::Browser.new(:resynchronize => true)
</pre>

Or you can explicitly wait for AJAX calls.

<pre>
	When "I wait for the AJAX call to finish" do
 		@browser.wait
	end
</pre>

Which came from the "Celerity Ajax docs":http://wiki.github.com/jarib/celerity/ajax
 and "HtmlUnit FAQ":http://htmlunit.sourceforge.net/faq.html#AJAXDoesNotWork


h3. Automatically executing the AJAX response doesn't work, yet

Celerity uses "HtmlUnit":htmlunit under the covers to simulate a web browser and execute javascript.  HtmlUnit recently updated support for jQuery which should resolve this problem.

A work around is to 'eval' the response manually.
<pre>
  $(document).ready(function() {
    $.get('http://localhost:7000/ajax_responses/returning_javascript', function(data) {
      eval(data);
    });
  });  
</pre>


h2. Using Celerity from jirb

You can explore celerity by using *jirb* as follows
<pre>
  > jirb
  > require 'rubygems'
  > require 'celerity'
  > browser = Celerity::Browser.new
  > browser.goto('http://localhost:7000/on_page_load')
  > browser.html
</pre>


h2. Credits

Yutaka HARA - Updated the examples to use Ramaze (2009.07)


[cucumber]http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber/wikis
[celerity]http://celerity.rubyforge.org
[jruby]http://jruby.codehaus.org
[ramaze]http://ramaze.net
[rspec]http://rspec.info
[webrat]http://github.com/brynary/webrat/tree/master
[jquery]http://jquery.com/
[hpricot]http://code.whytheluckystiff.net/hpricot/
[htmlunit]http://htmlunit.sourceforge.net/
